My fantasty machine is a multisensory chair that can be used for mid to late stage dementia and Parkinsons patients, as well as anyone who could benefit from sensory stimulation. This chair can act as a strength training machine that adjusts to provide adequate resistance, will be equipped to massage and squeeze, heat up or cool down, provide various textures and objects to hold and feel, play music, and most importantly, track and notify caregivers of distress. Specifically a chair becaues often movement and balance get rapdily worse. If not generally sedentary, many mid-late stage patients do not spend a lot of time on their feet. The distress tracker is there to assist caregivers when it is hard for patients to express what's bothering them. For example, paranoia is a common symptom of dementia and this overall feeling of distress is not easily explained by those experiening it. An example: My father has Alzheimer's and lives in a group home with two other patients and a few caregivers. One day we went to go visit him and he was convinced we needed to live or his children would be shot. Dementia patients react better to tone of voice and feeling safe than they do to logic or explanation (it's for this reason it often doesn't help to tell a dementia patient he or she is wrong about something). The news had been on full blast detailing an ISIS attack and the story, in addition to my dad's sensitive hearing, put him in a serious state of distress. Several other environmental factors can do this: Feeling cold or hot, needing to go to the bathroom, hunger - depending on the stage people lose the ability to express they are hungry. The machine would track where a patient's focus is and communicate whether that focus is the effect of pleasant experiences or negative ones.
